Title: Anaerobic biodegradation of perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) and microbial community composition in soil amended with a dechlorinating culture and chlorinated solvents.

Authors: Lorah MM, He K, Blaney L, Akob DM, Harris C, Tokranov A, Hopkins Z, Shedd BP.

Journal:  (2024)

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2024.172996
PMID: 38719042

Abstract:
Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS), one of the most frequently detected per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) occurring in soil, surface water, and groundwater near sites contaminated with aqueous film-forming foam (AFFF), has proven to be recalcitrant to many destructive remedies, including chemical oxidation. We investigated the potential to utilize microbially mediated reduction (bioreduction) to degrade PFOS and other PFAS through addition of a known dehalogenating culture, WBC-2, to soil obtained from an AFFF-contaminated site. A substantial decrease in total mass of PFOS (soil and water) was observed in microcosms amended with WBC-2 and chlorinated volatile organic compound (cVOC) co-contaminants - 46.4 ± 11.0 % removal of PFOS over the 45-day experiment. In contrast, perfluorooctanoate (PFOA) and 6:2 fluorotelomer sulfonate (6:2 FTS) concentrations did not decrease in the same microcosms. The low or non-detectable concentrations of potential metabolites in full PFAS analyses, including after application of the total oxidizable precursor assay, indicated that defluorination occurred to non-fluorinated compounds or ultrashort-chain PFAS. Nevertheless, additional research on the metabolites and degradation pathways is needed. Population abundances of known dehalorespirers did not change with PFOS removal during the experiment, making their association with PFOS removal unclear. An increased abundance of sulfate reducers in the genus Desulfosporosinus (Firmicutes) and Sulfurospirillum (Campilobacterota) was observed with PFOS removal, most likely linked to initiation of biodegradation by desulfonation. These results have important implications for development of in situ bioremediation methods for PFAS and advancing knowledge of natural attenuation processes.
