Title: [Extracted from local file]

Authors: [See PDF for full details]

Journal: [See PDF for full details]

DOI: 10.1134/S0003683817050027
Source: Local file extraction

Abstract:
A bacterial strain has been isolated from soil contaminated by waste from petrochemical production. Based on its cultural-morphological, physiological-biochemical properties and an analysis of the nucleotide sequence of the 16S rRNA gene and phylogenetic analysis data, the strain was defined as Pseudomonas plecoglossicida 2.4-D. The unique ability of this bacterium to use perfluorooctanyl sulfonate (PFOS) as the only source of carbon and energy is shown. When cultivated in a liquid medium, the strain completely utilizes this substance in 6 days. It is proved that P. plecoglossicida 2.4-D transforms PFOS to perfluoroheptanoic (perfluoroenanthic) acid, while free fluorine ions are ## Page 3 released into the medium. Upon introduction into the soil, the strain was capable of PFOS degradation by 75%. The strain P. plecoglossicida 2.4D is recommended for environmental protection. It can be used in the development of biotechnologies for the transformation (utilization) of fluoroorganic compounds. This is a preview of subscription content, log in via an institution to check access. Access this article Log in via an institution Subscribe and save Springer+ from $39.99 /Month • Starting from 10 chapters or articles per month • Access and download chapters and articles from more than 300k books and 2,500 journals • Cancel anytime View plans Buy Now Buy article PDF USD 39.95 ## Page 4 Price excludes VAT (USA) Tax calculation will be finalised during checkout. Instant access to the full article PDF. Institutional subscriptions Similar content being viewed by others [image] Conversion of 4-Chlorophenoxyacetic Acid by the Pseudomonas sp. 36DCP Strain Article 01 March 2019 [image] Biodegradation of per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances: microbes, enzymes and their interactions Article 14 March 2025 [image] Preliminary study on isolation and characterization of bacteria with defluorination towards perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) Article 21 May 2024 ## Page 5 Discover the latest articles, books and news in related subjects, suggested using machine learning. Explore related subjects • Archaea • Bacteria • Bioremediation • Environmental Biotechnology • Pseudomonas fluorescens • Bacillus subtilis
