Title: Complete genome assembly of Hawai'i environmental nontuberculous mycobacteria reveals unexpected co-isolation with methylobacteria.

Authors: Hendrix J, Epperson LE, Tong EI, Chan YL, Hasan NA, Dawrs SN, Norton GJ, Virdi R, Crooks JL, Chan ED, Honda JR, Strong M.

Journal:  (2023)

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0291072
PMID: 37703253
PMCID: PMC10499228

Abstract:
Nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) are ubiquitous environmental opportunistic pathogens that can cause chronic lung disease. Within the United States, Hawai'i has the highest incidence of NTM lung disease, though the precise reasons are yet to be fully elucidated. One possibility is the high prevalence of NTM in the Hawai'i environment acting as a potential reservoir for opportunistic NTM infections. Through our previous initiatives to collect and characterize NTM in Hawai'i, community scientists of Hawai'i have collected thousands of environmental samples for sequencing. Here, these community scientists were invited for the first time into a high school lab in O'ahu for a genomic sequencing workshop, where participants sequenced four of the collected isolate genomic samples using the Oxford Nanopore Technologies MinION sequencer. Participants generated high quality long read data that when combined with short read Illumina data yielded complete bacterial genomic assemblies suitable for in-depth analysis. The gene annotation analysis identified a suite of genes that might help NTM thrive in the Hawai'i environment. Further, we found evidence of co-occurring methylobacteria, revealed from the sequencing data, suggesting that in some cases methylobacteria and NTM may coexist in the same niche, challenging previously accepted paradigms. The sequencing efforts presented here generated novel insights regarding the potential survival strategies and microbial interactions of NTM in the geographic hot spot of Hawai'i. We highlight the contributions of community scientists and present an activity that can be reimplemented as a workshop or classroom activity by other research groups to engage their local communities.
